Data center update (#1541)
cncf/glossary: content/en/data-center.md

---
title: Datacenter
status: Completed
category: Technology
tags: ["infrastructure", "fundamental", ""]
---

## What it is

A datacenter is a specialized building or facility designed to house computers, most often servers. 

> These datacenters tend to be connected to high-speed internet lines, especially when focused on cloud computing](/cloud-computing/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These datacenters tend to be connected to high-speed internet lines, especially when focused on [cloud computing](/cloud-computing/). 
```

Reviewer: Applied myself :)

## Problem it addresses

Before datacenters became prevalent (late 1990ies to 2000s), there were mainly individual computers with specific tasks or those used by individuals to do their work.

> But computers have limited resources (disk, RAM, and memory). 

Reviewer 2: RAM is the same as memory. We could add CPU

That means that applications running on them have the same hard constraints. 

> The size of the application is determined by the capacity of the computer it's running on. 

Reviewer 2: This sentence sounds weird. Maybe we can say "the performance..." or the "user experience..." or "the operability..."

Author: You mean "size," right? It does sound strange but don't think performance or user experience capture that. You simply can't build apps like Netflix without a datacenter, it's not a performance issue. You know what I mean?

Reviewer 2: Yep, now I get it. Still, the sentence is weird ^^ ... Maybe, just say it like you explained: With such hard constraints, huge applications like Netflix simply cannot be operated, or This constraints are the limiting factor for applications at scale, i.e. Netflix, Spotify. ... I would love to see "at scale" instead of "size"

Author: Ok, have a look now

> But if you think about apps like Gmail or Netflix (the actual app, not the interface you have on your phone or computer), those need more computing capacity than any one computer can provide. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But if you think about apps like Gmail or Netflix (the whole app, not only the user interface you have on your phone or computer), those need more computing capacity than any one computer can provide. 
```
